Saarideh was born under the strange signs of a skipped tidal change and a late new moon. Though it has long been thought that prophecy died with Aroden, the Undine still read the signs and listen for the calling of the fates, and they declared her birth an undeniable call. They stated that she was destined to return something long lost from the depths. The superstitious among them (a considerable majority) considered this an ill omen. Being a newborn and relatively unconcerned with such things, she shat herself and vomited a little.

As she grew up in Almas, she discovered she was different. She wasn't all that unique as an Undine in general, but her talents coincided unusually with her bloodline and her regional families. She could breathe underwater indefinitely, and survive easily on land. Though Undine generally integrate into local governance and culture, the Alman Undine keep a council reminiscent of the old days, and Saarideh bothered them. They preferred others over her, and she fell slowly out of her own society as she grew... which was actually quite comfortable for her, though she would admit under drink or duress that she wished she has been more welcome. However, she was generally happier selling maps of the reefs that she updated as they grew off the shore and recovering keepsakes and baubles dropped overboard and returning them to the absentminded sailors that owned them.

It was in executing this service that she fell in with the Riverford grove of druids, and began to learn druidcraft in return for retrieving herbs from deep in the bay that were previously unobtainable to them. She would guide ships peaceably up the river for passage to their meetings and rituals, trade materials for tutelage, and use this newfound knowledge to better navigate the bay and be a force for natural balance within the city. She's made a minor name for herself in identifying aquatic herbs, retrieving objects lost at sea, and settling small disputes as a neutral party. She's lived peacefully in this way, occasionally participating in the Undine subculture that begrudgingly tolerates her, and waiting for something that she's always expected to happen. Sometimes, when she's in the deepest parts of the bay, she swears that she feels a current pulling weakly at her into the deep, pitch-black waters of the deep sea, and an impossibly deep voice calling to her just too softly to make out the words.

How fortuitous, then, that Andoran and the Bountiful Venture Company were looking for those who wanted to make a change and try something new across the sea. When she passed through the screenings, it felt as though something within her was sated; as she stepped onto the Perigrine, that same part of her was elated. She spends considerable time on the deck, since the whirling winds, splatter of salty spray, and rushing sounds of the boat cutting through the water ring like song in her ears.
